As you can see, it's important to use a defense in depth security strategy.
It's like airport security check-in points.
First, it's at the desk.
They check your passport, issue you a ticket.
Then you use the ticket to get through the first gate followed by
customs security checks and passport checks.
Once in the airport,
other checks before you get on the plane to make sure you're
boarding the correct flight and then inside the plane to make sure
you're sitting at your designated sea.
And even once you exit the flight,
there are checks at the other end before you leave the airport,
the same thing in our application.
We use an authorization server with OAuth2 and OpenID Connect to
authenticate the users and clients and then issue them a token.
When the token is used,
we validate the token is not fraudulent by checking the signature,
expiry to ensure it's still valid,
the issuer to ensure it was issued by the correct authorization server entity,
the audience to ensure it is intended for the resource server.
Once in the resource server,
the scopes to ensure the client has received consent from the resource server,
the roles to ensure that the resource owner is entitled to give the consent.
And Spring provides the tools for us to perform these checks at multiple layers,
at the URI, method,
and event entity level on the way in and on the way
out just like airport security.
OAuth2 support in Spring Security is really building momentum.
In version 5.2, they are rolling out opaque tokens,
support for the JWT bearer grants followed by the token exchange.
So I will be providing updates.
Hence, subscribe if you're interested and want to keep up to date.
And feel free to message me in the discussion if you have any questions.
Now that concludes the module and the course.
If you have stuck with the course from the beginning, well done.
You will now have OAuth2, OpenID Connect,
and JWT in your security skills toolbox.
And from my experience,
you're way ahead of most developers who for some reason
find security a chore and avoid learning about it to the
application and user's peril.
Introduce a bug in the new feature,
most likely you'll have to explain it to your tech lead or your manager.
But introduce a security vulnerability,
and you could be explaining it to very senior management, compliance, or even legal.